---
title: Excited
summary: Onto Linux explorations...
tags: linux, ssd, devops
---

Just got me a new SSD for my macbook. For a while have been thinking of installing a dual boot linux installation on my mac.

Why you may ask?
- brew is nice, but linux repos are much more extensive
- I dunno, sed awk or some of those utilities have mac specific regex things. Linux is more standard \b for an escape instead of another strange character combo for mac.  
- Clang vs Gcc.  Clangs put on by default in the mac. Going through some tutorials for C. It mentions a debugger tool Valgrind. I'm not sure what it is about the Mac, clang or something else OS specific, but it doesn't work properly on my Mac. And there's no way I want to mess with Brew and switch or default my C compiler and mess with that.  I don't want to break my system.
- Read a few blogs here and there about Webdev's liking using Linux even on macbooks. There's this node developer I was reading about. Originally front end stack back mid 2005's, PHP, guy. Went to Mac, used Rails. Then Node. Now back to front end.  Felt that Maverick was putting on more and more stuff that didn't benefit him.  Apple Maps? Really. I never used it either.  He like putting on a lightweight distro on his Mac, and it ran faster and smoother for his purposes, development with one of the MVC frameworks.
- I feel like I'm learning more when I run and use Linux.  Its been a long time coming. More than several years. But yeah, I'm going to return.

Its good for learning, its good for getting better with the command line. Its good for getting good with devops skills that ultimately transfer to cloud deployment skills.

Linux. It's a coming.

Will update you all on the progress, the HDD to SDD swapout, reinstall of Mac, and partitioning, and distro choice. 

Excited. Lets see how long this install and migration takes place.


JL
