---
title: Jan Plans
summary: Assonance! It rhymes
tags: planning, sprints, scrum
---
Jan Plans, yes tis an independent clause with assonance and rhyme schematics.  Tis indeed.

Ok, how are the plans?  Hum...Taulia truly inspired me on doing sprint and scrum methodology.

Here's how I'll apply it to the individuals life (speaking of it in terms of an individual/myself vs a team/a group of individuals).

My epics are my year goals.  Fine and dandy yes they are.  Will they all be accomplished. Hopefully yes, but the minutiae may be overlooked/skimmed over (i.e. a euphemision for...missed).

The scrum sprints are the two week periods of productivity.  A week has 14 days, with 10 business days.  Here's the plan.  Lets have Sunday and Wednesday's be days off, and lets have the remaining days be the 10 productive work days, the days with to-do lists.  Sundays and Wednesdays shall be free of them.

Lol, laughing out loud or lots of laughs, let Wednesday and Sundays be days not bound to being at the library or a cafe/peets/starbucks for studying or co-working on something. Let the other Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Fridays and Saturdays be commited to being in a wifi zone. Ha!

Furthermore, sprint methodology I saw it to mean, days of productivity, and days of resting reflection and retrospection.  Hum... here's how it shall go.

Sprint 1, first part of month. Sprint 2, second part of a month.

Sprint 1 dissected further

- Sunday - the day of no lists
- Monday - work day
- Tuesday - work day
- Wednesday - the day of no lists
- Thursday - work day
- Friday - work day
- Saturday - work day

- Sunday - the day of no lists
- Monday - work day
- Tuesday - work day
- Wednesday - the day of no lists
- Thursday - work day
- Friday - resting reflection planning day
- Saturday - resting reflection planning day

Sprint 2
- repeat the previous cycle (i.e. wash rinse repeat)

Sounds like plan to me!

JL

P.s. Read a real interesting article commenting on the GTD book by David Allen.  It was more of a critique.  An arg, and erm, and an ugh here and there.  The critique said GTD was boggled down with bureacracy and procceses, so much that people got mentally tired.  The author of the blog post then said his resolution/solution to this was for each day, 7 days in a week, commit to finishing and doing "1 thing" a day regardless of rain or shine (i.e. no matter what came up).  Some days for productivity, and the weekends for personal stuff.  I like it.  I'm going to apply this to the JLai individual scrum methodology.